# Receive Cloud Events from an external solution

## Overview

This example shows how Kyma can receive Cloud Events from an external solution on a local Kyma installation. In this case, the external solution and sending of Events are mocked, but you can also use real solutions.

The example involves following steps:

1. The external solution sends an **order.created** Event.
2. The Event is accepted by Kyma.
3. The Event triggers the deployed lambda.
4. The lambda prints out CE context attributes.

## Prerequisites

* A local Kyma [installation](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/kyma/04-02-local-installation.md). 

## Installation

### Create Application 

1. Open the Kyma console and choose or create the Namespace where you want to deploy the example.
2. In the Kyma Console, go to **Integration** > **Application** > **Create Application**.
3. Choose a name for your application - henceforth referred to as **{application}**.

### Establish secure connection

Use the [connector service](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/application-connector/02-02-connector-service.md) to establish a secure connection between the mocked external solution and your application.

### Connect external solution 

Follow these steps to connect an external solution to Kyma:
1. Clone [this repository](https://github.com/janmedrek/one-click-integration-script).
2. In the Kyma Console, navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **{application}**.
3. Click **Connect Application**.
4. Copy the token.
5. Use the one-click-generation [helper script](https://github.com/janmedrek/one-click-integration-script) to generate the certificate:

  ```bash
  ./one-click-integration.sh -u <paste URL here>
  ```

 This script generates a `generated.pem` file. It contains the signed certificate and key that you will use for subsequent communications.

  > **NOTE**: The token expires quickly, so use it right away or generate a new one.

### Mock an external solution

Use any HTTP client, such as curl or postman, to send a request from the mocked external solution to Kyma.

### Register Events

Register Events via the metadata API using [`register-events.json`](./register-events.json):

    ```bash
    # Using httpie
    http POST https://gateway.kyma.local/{application}/v1/metadata/services --cert=generated.pem --verify=no < register-events.json
    # Using curl
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @./register-events.json https://gateway.kyma.local/{application}/v1/metadata/services --cert generated.pem -k
    ```

To verify the Event flow, navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **{application}**. You can see the registered Events.

### Bind Application

1. Navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **{application}**.
2. Create a binding with your Namespace.

### Add Events and APIs to the Namespace

1. Select your Namespace and go to **Service Management** > **Catalog**.
2. Click **Services** to see the registered Events.
3. Click on the Event entry to reveal details.
4. Click **Add once** button to add Events to your Namespace.
5. Go to **Service Instances** > **Services** tab to see if the Events are available.

### Create lambda

1. Create the lambda definition in lambda ui using [lambda.js](./lambda.js) in your Namespace
2. Click **Select Function trigger** button to select an Event trigger, then choose **order.created**.

### Publish the Event

Use the certificate generated by the `./one-click-integration.sh` script to send a Cloud Event to the gateway using any HTTP client, such as curl, httpie, or postman. You can also use CloudEvents SDK. For details, see [this example](./example.go)

### Test lambda   

To check if the lambda function was triggered properly, inspect the Pod logs in your Namespace:

```bash
  kubectl -n work logs lambdaname-xxx-xxxx -c lambdaname -f
```

You can also find traces under `https://jaeger.kyma.local/`.
