# Description

This is an example scenario which demonstrates how Kyma can receive Cloud Events from an external solution. To make things easier, this scenario uses a  **local Kyma installation**.

This scenario uses a mocked external solution. You can mock the sending of Events using an HTTP client. 
You can also use other mocked or real solutions.



The runtime flow involves following steps:

1. The external solution sends an `order.created` Event.
2. The Event is accepted by Kyma.
3. The Event triggers the deployed lambda.
4. The lambda prints out CE context attributes.

## Prerequisites

### Install Kyma locally

Use these [instructions](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/kyma/04-02-local-installation.md) to install and configure Kyma locally.

### Create a Namespace

Create a Namespace called `workshop`. You can choose a different name, but remember to use it in the commands.

### Create Application

1. In the Kyma Console, go to **Integration** > **Application** > **Create Application**.
2. Enter the Application name: sample-external-solution. 
## Installation
### Establish secure connection 

Use the [connector service](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/application-connector/02-02-connector-service.md) to establish a secure connection between the mocked external solution and your application.

Follow these steps connect an external solution to Kyma:
1. Clone [this repository](https://github.com/janmedrek/one-click-integration-script).

2. In the Kyma Console, navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **sample-external-solution**.
3. Click **Connect Application**.
4. Copy the token.
  
5. Use the one-click-generation [helper script](https://github.com/janmedrek/one-click-integration-script) to generate the certificate:

  ```bash
  ./one-click-integration.sh -u <paste URL here>
  ```

 This script generates a `generated.pem` file. It contains the signed certificate and key that you will use for subsequent communications.

  > **NOTE** The token expires quickly, so use it right away or generate a new one.

### Mock an external solution

Use any HTTP client, such as curl or postman, to send a request from the mocked external solution to Kyma.

### Register Events

1. Register Events via the metadata API using [`register-events.json`](./register-events.json):

    ```bash
    # Using httpie
    http POST https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert=generated.pem --verify=no < register-events.json
    # Using curl
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @./register-events.json https://gateway.kyma.local/sample-external-solution/v1/metadata/services --cert generated.pem -k
    ```

To verify the Event flow, navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **sample-external-solution**. You can see the registered Events.

### Bind Application

1. Navigate to **Integration** > **Applications** > **sample-external-solution**
2. Create a binding with the `workshop` Namespace.

### Add Events and APIs to the Namespace

1. Select the `workshop` Namespace and go to **Service Management** > **Catalog**.
2. Click **Services** to see the registered Events.

3. Click on the Event entry to reveal details. 
4. Click **Add once** button to add Events to your Namespace.
5. Go to **Service Instances** > **Services** tab to see if the Events are available.

### Create lambda

* Create the lambda definition in lambda ui using [lambda.js](./lambda.js) in the workshop namespace
2. Click **Select Function trigger** button to select an Event trigger, then choose **order.created**.

## Runtime

### Publish the Event

Use the certificate generated by the `./one-click-integration.sh` script to send a Cloud Event to the gateway using any HTTP client, such as curl, httpie, or postman. You can also use CloudEvents SDK. For details, see [this example](./example.go)

## Verification

To check if the lambda function was triggered properly, inspect the Pod logs in the `workshop` Namespace:

    ```bash
    kubectl -n work logs lambdaname-xxx-xxxx -c lambdaname -f
    ```


You can also find traces under `https://jaeger.kyma.local/`.
